An Introduction to the World of Manzanita
Welcome to McArthur Burney Falls
Memorial State Park! Most people who
come to visit this special place probably
come for the waterfall or the fishing, but
if you are someone who enjoys learning
about plants, you are in for a treat as
well.
Burney Falls is home to a diverse
array of plant species. I would like
to draw your attention today to one
particular type of evergreen shrub found
in this park, called manzanita.
Manzanitas belong to the genus
Arctostaphylos and are those woody
shrubs with the peeling, shiny red bark
and round green leaves that you can see
practically everywhere in the park. For
example, there are many of them right athe entrance to the Falls Loop Trail.
If you are a Spanish speaker, you
already know that manzanita means
“little apple” in Spanish. Manzanitas
produce many berries in the Summer
that are a favored food for wildlife in
the park, which makes sense, as the
Latin name for the genus Arctostaphylos
translates roughly to “Bear grapes”.
Manzanitas are fascinating plants for
us here in California, because California
is a hotspot for manzanita diversity. In
fact, 99 percent of the over 100 species
of manzanita that exist on the planet are
found within the “California Floristic
Province”.
A handful of the species found in
California extend into neighboring states
and Mexico, but most manzanita species
are “endemic” to California, which
means that they are only found here and
nowhere else! Manzanitas are adapted
to survive nearly every climate in this
diverse state and can be found not only
at the coast, but also in the mountains,
the inland valleys, the deserts and the
temperate rainforest. Some parts of the
state have more manzanita diversity
than others. For example, at least 14
species of manzanita can be seen in the
San Luis Obispo area!
Manzanitas are fascinating plants for
us here in California, because California
is a hotspot for manzanita diversity. In
fact, 99 percent of the over 100 species
of manzanita that exist on the planet are
found within the “California Floristic
Province”.
A handful of the species found in
California extend into neighboring states
and Mexico, but most manzanita species
are “endemic” to California, which
means that they are only found here and
nowhere else! Manzanitas are adapted
to survive nearly every climate in this
diverse state and can be found not only
t
s
s
s
s
s
at the coast, but also in the mountains,
the inland valleys, the deserts and the
temperate rainforest. Some parts of the
state have more manzanita diversity
than others. For example, at least 14
species of manzanita can be seen in the
San Luis Obispo area!
Another interesting aspect of
manzanitas is the fact that they belong
to Ericaceae, the same plant family as
blueberries and huckleberries, among
others. You can really see the family
connection when you look at the upside-
down “urn shaped” blossoms that many
of these plants share in common. You
will also see this flower shape on other
California native plants that belong
to Ericaceae, such as Madrone trees
(Arbutus menziesii) and Salal plants at
the coast (Gaultheria shallon).
Let’s talk about the two species of
manzanita that you are likely to spot
here at Burney Falls. The most common
one you will see is the Greenleaf
Manzanita (Arctostaphylos patula).
This evergreen shrub is one of the most
common shrubs in the park. It has round
green leaves and pink blossoms in the
springtime. The berries are green but
turn red when mature. The bark on the
limbs and trunk is shiny, red, and peels
away. If you look closely at the little
stems that bear the flowers and fruits,
you will see that they are adorned with
golden or black fuzzy hairs.
The other manzanita you will see in
the park can be found near the beach
and boat launch area on the shore of
Lake Britton. This manzanita is the
Whiteleaf Manzanita (Arctostaphylos
viscida). They tend to grow a little taller
than the Greenleaf Manzanitas, have
blossoms with more of a whitish color,
and have leaves that are a light, pastel
green color. If you look closely at the
tiny little stems that bear the flowers and
fruits, you will see that they are adorned
with tiny, sticky, pink and white hairs.
Those are the two species found at
this park, but if you venture up towards
higher elevations on your travels, such
as Lassen Volcanic National Park, you
may encounter the Pinemat Manzanita
(Arctostaphylos nevadensis) which
grows low to the ground and has white
flowers. If you venture down towards
Redding, you may encounter the
Common Manzanita (Arctostaphylos
manzanita). I encourage you to get out
there and explore the natural world as
much as you can this summer! For more
information about manzanitas, a book I
would recommend is the Field Guide to
 Manzanitas from Backcountry Press.
