Welcome From the
McArthur-Burney Falls
Interpretive Association
As President of the McArthur-Burney Falls Interpretive Association, I am
pleased to welcome visitors to the McArthur-Burney Falls Memorial State
Park.
Inspiration is the theme of this year at the Park. The root word of
inspiration is from the Latin
“inspirare” meaning “to breathe
into”.
This definition helps me to
understand how inspiration can
give us an unexpected boost.
The boost could be to get up,
move forward and take action.
Surprisingly, it could also be
to slow down and enjoy what
we have right in front of us.
We could be inspired to take
on an exciting, new project or
challenge. We could also be
inspired to stop, too. To really
take the time to relax and rest.
My favorite way to
experience the natural beauty
of the Intermountain area is
with family and friends. I
often remember those who are no longer with us, too. I miss my father, Steve
Sacson and my brother George Sacson. They loved the outdoors and this area
so much. A favorite memory is boating, swimming or hiking with them and
enjoying having an ice cream with the family afterwards on a hot summer day.
Camping, fishing and preparing outdoor meals are also fantastic ways to
make memories and spend time with friends and family. These activities are
great ways to pass on our love for nature and learn about history. We may also
learn some new skills along the way. We could be inspired to try our hand at
woodworking, handcrafting, art, music and/or storytelling. My own personal
favorite is outdoor cooking. To me, nothing tastes better than having a really
good breakfast or barbecue meal right next to a great scenic view.
We are also very happy to see the lower falls trail open again. The
association is continuing to focus on improvements for any area or item
needing repair or replacement. The MBFIA is also planning both educational
and volunteer opportunities throughout the year. They will be posted on the
official McArthur-Burney Falls Memorial State Parks website.
Retaining the natural beauty of this area continues to inspire each of us to
make memories and pass them on to benefit future generations for years to
come.
Sincerely,
Jim Sacson
President, MBFIA

