Places to Visit in the Area
Volcanic Scenic Highway: For road warriors, the
Volcanic Legacy Scenic Byway passes by Burney FallsState Park and offers majestic views of the eastern
Shasta volcanic country from Lassen National Park, up
past Mt Shasta and into Oregon. Pick up a brochure orbook at the Visitor Center and plan some daytime roadtrips.
Medicine Lake Highlands: Approximate 53 miles
from the park, Medicine Lake Highland is an ancient
shield volcano with Medicine Lake at the top. Glass
Mountain, found here, is a significant outcropping
of obsidian rock used by Native Americans for
arrowheads and other tools. You can drive right to thebase of the mountain.
Lava Beds National Monument: Numerous
underground caves and an information visitor center
are available. A full day or more can be spent
exploring the caves or Captain Jack’s stronghold.
Subway Cave: A river of lava over 20,000 years
ago left tube-like caves and Subway Cave is the largestaccessible tube in the flow. A self-guided trail in the
Lassen National Forest is located near the town of Old
it in the Area
Station, 1⁄4 mile north of
the junction of Highway
44 and 89 across from
Cave Campground.
Contact the Old Station
Information Center
between April and
December. Hours vary.
Ahjumawi State Park and Big Lake: The ancestral
lands of the Achomawi, whose name translates to
“where the waters
come together,” is only
accessible by boat,
canoe, or kayak. The
park is situated on the
Fall River. Visitors can
launch boats into Big
Lake at a Pacific Gas &
Electric (PG&E) public
boat launch known as Rat Farm in McArthur.
Fort Crook Museum and Historical Society: This
park is located in Fall River Mills just west of the
central town, and is on Highway 299, 15 minutes east
of crossing Highway 89. The museum and round barn
offer a look at the European settler’s life in the late
1800s.
Baum Lake: Baum Lake is perfect for a peaceful
afternoon kayaking or canoeing. Open only to non-
motorized vessels it is a sanctuary for exotic bird life
and an archaeologically significant site for Native
Americans. The lake is one of the region’s most
popular fly fishing locations.
McCloud Waterfalls: The McCloud River Trail
passes three beautiful waterfalls as it winds through
a canyon of basalt lava rock. This smooth, well
maintained trail offers summer swimming, fall foliage,
and an early spring thaw, making it fun and accessible
almost year-round. Follow Highway 89 north. Turn
south on Road 40N44. (Look for a Fowlers Camp/
McCloud Falls sign.)

